documentation/src/docs/asciidoc/user-guide/overview.adoc, before:

[[overview]]
== Overview

The goal of this document is to provide comprehensive reference documentation for
programmers writing tests, extension authors, and engine authors as well as build tool
and IDE vendors.

ifdef::backend-html5[]
ifdef::linkToPdf[]
This document is also available as a link:{userGuidePdfFileName}[PDF download].
endif::linkToPdf[]
endif::backend-html5[]

[[overview-what-is-junit]]
=== What is JUnit?

JUnit is composed of several different modules from three different sub-projects.

**JUnit {version} = _JUnit Platform_ + _JUnit Jupiter_ + _JUnit Vintage_**

The **JUnit Platform** serves as a foundation for <<launcher-api,launching testing
frameworks>> on the JVM. It also defines the `{TestEngine}` API for developing a testing
framework that runs on the platform. Furthermore, the platform provides a
<<running-tests-console-launcher,Console Launcher>> to launch the platform from the
command line and the <<junit-platform-suite-engine>> for running a custom test suite using
one or more test engines on the platform. First-class support for the JUnit Platform also
exists in popular IDEs (see <<running-tests-ide-intellij-idea>>,
<<running-tests-ide-eclipse>>, <<running-tests-ide-netbeans>>, and
<<running-tests-ide-vscode>>) and build tools (see <<running-tests-build-gradle>>,
<<running-tests-build-maven>>, and <<running-tests-build-ant>>).

**JUnit Jupiter** is the combination of the <<writing-tests,programming model>> and
<<extensions,extension model>> for writing JUnit tests and extensions. The Jupiter
sub-project provides a `TestEngine` for running Jupiter based tests on the platform.

**JUnit Vintage** provides a `TestEngine` for running JUnit 3 and JUnit 4 based tests on
the platform. It requires JUnit 4.12 or later to be present on the class path or module
path.

[[overview-java-versions]]
=== Supported Java Versions

JUnit requires Java 17 (or higher) at runtime. However, you can still test code that
has been compiled with previous versions of the JDK.

[[overview-getting-help]]
=== Getting Help

Ask JUnit-related questions on {StackOverflow} or use the {DiscussionsQA}.

[[overview-getting-started]]
=== Getting Started

[[overview-getting-started-junit-artifacts]]
==== Downloading JUnit Artifacts

To find out what artifacts are available for download and inclusion in your project, refer
to <<dependency-metadata>>. To set up dependency management for your build, refer to
<<running-tests-build>> and the <<overview-getting-started-example-projects>>.

[[overview-getting-started-features]]
==== JUnit Features

To find out what features are available in JUnit {version} and how to use them, read the
corresponding sections of this User Guide, organized by topic.

* <<writing-tests, Writing Tests in JUnit Jupiter>>
* <<migrating-from-junit4, Migrating from JUnit 4 to JUnit Jupiter>>
* <<running-tests>>
* <<extensions, Extension Model for JUnit Jupiter>>
* Advanced Topics
  - <<launcher-api>>
  - <<testkit>>

[[overview-getting-started-example-projects]]
==== Example Projects

To see complete, working examples of projects that you can copy and experiment with, the
{junit-examples-repo}[`junit-examples`] repository is a good place to start. The
`junit-examples` repository hosts a collection of example projects based on JUnit Jupiter,
JUnit Vintage, and other testing frameworks. You'll find appropriate build scripts (e.g.,
`build.gradle`, `pom.xml`, etc.) in the example projects. The links below highlight some
of the combinations you can choose from.

* For Gradle and Java, check out the `{junit-jupiter-starter-gradle}` project.
* For Gradle and Kotlin, check out the `{junit-jupiter-starter-gradle-kotlin}` project.
* For Gradle and Groovy, check out the `{junit-jupiter-starter-gradle-groovy}` project.
* For Maven, check out the `{junit-jupiter-starter-maven}` project.
* For Ant, check out the `{junit-jupiter-starter-ant}` project.

Commit message:

Highlight Vintage deprecation in Overview

documentation/src/docs/asciidoc/user-guide/overview.adoc, after:

[[overview]]
== Overview

The goal of this document is to provide comprehensive reference documentation for
programmers writing tests, extension authors, and engine authors as well as build tool
and IDE vendors.

ifdef::backend-html5[]
ifdef::linkToPdf[]
This document is also available as a link:{userGuidePdfFileName}[PDF download].
endif::linkToPdf[]
endif::backend-html5[]

[[overview-what-is-junit]]
=== What is JUnit?

JUnit is composed of several different modules from three different sub-projects.

**JUnit {version} = _JUnit Platform_ + _JUnit Jupiter_ + _JUnit Vintage_**

The **JUnit Platform** serves as a foundation for <<launcher-api,launching testing
frameworks>> on the JVM. It also defines the `{TestEngine}` API for developing a testing
framework that runs on the platform. Furthermore, the platform provides a
<<running-tests-console-launcher,Console Launcher>> to launch the platform from the
command line and the <<junit-platform-suite-engine>> for running a custom test suite using
one or more test engines on the platform. First-class support for the JUnit Platform also
exists in popular IDEs (see <<running-tests-ide-intellij-idea>>,
<<running-tests-ide-eclipse>>, <<running-tests-ide-netbeans>>, and
<<running-tests-ide-vscode>>) and build tools (see <<running-tests-build-gradle>>,
<<running-tests-build-maven>>, and <<running-tests-build-ant>>).

**JUnit Jupiter** is the combination of the <<writing-tests,programming model>> and
<<extensions,extension model>> for writing JUnit tests and extensions. The Jupiter
sub-project provides a `TestEngine` for running Jupiter based tests on the platform.

**JUnit Vintage** provides a `TestEngine` for running JUnit 3 and JUnit 4 based tests on
the platform. It requires JUnit 4.12 or later to be present on the class path or module
path. Note, however, that the JUnit Vintage engine is deprecated and should only be used
temporarily while migrating tests to JUnit Jupiter or another testing framework with
native JUnit Platform support.

[[overview-java-versions]]
=== Supported Java Versions

JUnit requires Java 17 (or higher) at runtime. However, you can still test code that
has been compiled with previous versions of the JDK.

[[overview-getting-help]]
=== Getting Help

Ask JUnit-related questions on {StackOverflow} or use the {DiscussionsQA}.

[[overview-getting-started]]
=== Getting Started

[[overview-getting-started-junit-artifacts]]
==== Downloading JUnit Artifacts

To find out what artifacts are available for download and inclusion in your project, refer
to <<dependency-metadata>>. To set up dependency management for your build, refer to
<<running-tests-build>> and the <<overview-getting-started-example-projects>>.

[[overview-getting-started-features]]
==== JUnit Features

To find out what features are available in JUnit {version} and how to use them, read the
corresponding sections of this User Guide, organized by topic.

* <<writing-tests, Writing Tests in JUnit Jupiter>>
* <<migrating-from-junit4, Migrating from JUnit 4 to JUnit Jupiter>>
* <<running-tests>>
* <<extensions, Extension Model for JUnit Jupiter>>
* Advanced Topics
  - <<launcher-api>>
  - <<testkit>>

[[overview-getting-started-example-projects]]
==== Example Projects

To see complete, working examples of projects that you can copy and experiment with, the
{junit-examples-repo}[`junit-examples`] repository is a good place to start. The
`junit-examples` repository hosts a collection of example projects based on JUnit Jupiter,
JUnit Vintage, and other testing frameworks. You'll find appropriate build scripts (e.g.,
`build.gradle`, `pom.xml`, etc.) in the example projects. The links below highlight some
of the combinations you can choose from.

* For Gradle and Java, check out the `{junit-jupiter-starter-gradle}` project.
* For Gradle and Kotlin, check out the `{junit-jupiter-starter-gradle-kotlin}` project.
* For Gradle and Groovy, check out the `{junit-jupiter-starter-gradle-groovy}` project.
* For Maven, check out the `{junit-jupiter-starter-maven}` project.
* For Ant, check out the `{junit-jupiter-starter-ant}` project.
